Summary:
We used Expedia's online consumer behaviour data set from kaggle to build a recommendation system that would recommend a hotel cluster to the user based on various user level metrics. The data has 37M user sessions and 24 features, most of the features are catergorical features with as high as 10000 unique values. We also have a set of 150 encoded numerical latent features that describe the destination user is trying to visit, we use these features to replace the categorical feature search_destionation_id. The jupyter notebook attached gives a detailed insight into the levels of preprocessing, the exploratory data analysis, the models used, the hyperparameter tuning for each model and the readouts of the various accuracies generated from each model implemented. The main challange was faced in the preprocessing and model building step. Considering very high catergoical features, the technique of one hot encoding retuned over 12,000 features, this wasn't ideal to train the models, hence we used PCA to reduce dimensionality and we were able to bring down the no. of features to 637. Since the data set is so large, running models like KNN, Random forest and SVM took a lot of time, we have just considered 1% of the data for model building, with including more data we should be able to improve our accuracies. This dataset was taken from a kaggle competition where the accuracies of the top winners were around 50%.

Data Set - https://www.kaggle.com/c/expedia-hotel-recommendations/data

Presentation - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sMIF8mSHyddAbqUl0Ddy18k1W5jaJj13vt9VYOKEbfc/edit#slide=id.g107203c2158_1_0
